---
layout: post
title: Multi-target tracking using radar and AIS
---
All vessels of a certain size are required to be connected to the Automatic Identification System (AIS). AIS equipment on board the ship transmits its unique ID tag, position and velocity to nearby vehicles. Together with maritime radar, AIS is therefore  a key technology in collision maritime avoidance.

AIS do not suffer from many of the weaknesses of radar data such as misdetections and false alarms. However, AIS has its own weaknesses (limited update rate, possibly wrong ID tags) and many small boats as well as rogue vessels do not use AIS. A key objective of the Autosea project is to develop a sensor fusion system that combines radar and AIS so that the strengths of both systems can be expoited, while the weaknesses can be mitigated as much as possible.

## Proposed Tasks:

For the project assignment, the following tasks are proposed:

1. Write a survey on multitarget and multisensor tracking methods.
2. Implement a multitarget tracking method that fuses radar data with AIS data under benign assumptions (mostly well separated targets, no faults in the AIS data).
3. Describe the method and summarize the findings in a report.

For the master thesis, the following tasks are proposed:

1. Track-level detection issues. This concerns the establishment of new tracks (target birth, target acquisition) and the termination of old or invalid tracks (target death). This also concerns whether one shall establish a track on a target without AIS.
2. Out-of-sequence measurements: Sometimes AIS measurements arrive with signficant delays. Processing such measurements require special techniques.
3. Target swapping: Sometimes AIS swaps the identities of two ships. Such situations must be detected and handled appropriately.

## Autosea
The candidate will be associated with the AUTOSEA project, which is a collaborative research project between NTNU, DNV GL, Kongsberg Maritime and Maritime Robotics, focused on achieving world-leading competence and knowledge in the design and verification of methods and systems for sensor fusion and COLAV for ASVs. The project has access to supervision and physical test platforms through our industry partners.

## Supervisors
Main supervisor: [Edmund F. Brekke](http://www.ntnu.no/ansatte/edmundfo), Associate Professor, NTNU

## References

* Fortmann et al. (1983): "Sonar Tracking of Multiple Targets Using Joint Probabilistic Data Association", IEEE Journal of Oceanic Engineering.
* Habtemariam et al. (2014): "Measurement levelAIS/radar fusion", Signal Processing.
