---
layout: post
title: Extended object tracking
category: SF
---
## Background
Target tracking concerns estimating the movement of one or more objects based on measurements of the objects. Most commonly, the measurements of an object is assumed to be a single point in range and bearing, or in cartesian coordinates. However, when sensors with high resolution is used, this assumption becomes questionable, as the extent of observed objects also can be seen.

Estimating the extent jointly with the kinematic state is known as extended object tracking (EOT). This is a fairly recent field which entails several challenges. These include parametrization of the extent, efficient data association, modeling of maneuvers and how to deal with situations where only parts of the object are visible.

EOT is of particular relevance to the autonomous ferry application. Short-range high-resolution sensors (e.g., lidar) will be used for collision avoidance. Since the Canal is relatively narrow the ferry will inevitably have to navigate very close other vessels, and having a good estimate of their extents is therefore very important.

This autumn project will build upon a previous autumn project and master thesis to develop a reliable EOT method for the autonomous ferry.

## Proposed Tasks
Tasks for the autumn project:

1. Write a survey on feature measurements and other non-standard measurements used in the target tracking literature.
2. Select three such measurement types and investigate their potential for target detection, data association or state estimation through simulations and/or implementation on radar data. 
3. Discuss the findings in a report.

## Contact 
For more information, contact main supervisor [Edmund F. Brekke](http://www.ntnu.no/ansatte/edmundfo).

