---
layout: post
title: Radar-AIS fusion with the PMBM filter
category: SF
---
## Background

To safely navigate among other ships, an autonomous ship needs means to keep track of where other ships are as well as their motions. 
On the fundamental level, there are two ways to achieve this. On the one hand, ships may broadcast their locations and other relevant information to each other. 
All ships of a certain size are obliged to do this through the Automatic Identification System (AIS). 
On the other hand, ships can perceive their environment including other ships by means of exteroceptive sensors such as radar, lidar, optical cameras and infrared cameras. 

AIS is easy to work with because AIS data are inherently tidy: There is a unique measurement from each boat that has an AIS transmitter. 
For radar, on the other hand, one must always solve the problem of data association: 
Of several returns in a radar image one must decide which return comes from which ship. 
However, radar or other exteroceptive sensors are always needed because not all ships have AIS, and because AIS depends on satellite communication with its own reliability issues. 

In the Autosea project, both radar and AIS have been used as information sources in collision avoidance (COLAV) experiments. 
However, the two data sources were never used together, because a sufficiently mature algorithm for fusing radar and AIS never was developed. 

It is not immediately obvious how radar and AIS should be fused in order to benefit maximally from the two data sources complementary properties. 
One can, however, expect that optimal fusion only is possible if the fusion algorithm is based on an optimal approach to multi-target tracking. 
Such an approach is provided by the Poisson Multi-Bernoulli Mixture (PMBM) filter, which has emerged as the de facto gold standard in multi-target tracking during the last decade. 


## Scope

During this assignment, the candidate will develop a multi-target tracking algorithm that fuses both radar data and AIS data within the PMBM framework. 


## Proposed Tasks for the 5th year project

In the specialization project the main focus will be on a track display for PMBM. The following tasks are proposed for the specialization project:

* Make yourself familiar with multi-target tracking, random finite sets, MHT and PMBM. 
* Write a survey on existing research on visualization of multi-target tracking.
* Suggest a handful of output representations from the PMBM filter, and discuss their potential utility and reliability. Such representations can be the tracks of the top hypotheses, multi-target versions of maximum a posteriori estimates, occupancy grids, etc. 
* Implement functions to obtain the chosen output representations, and experiment with graphical effects (e.g., coloring) to convey the information in the best possible way. 
* Test the utility of the developed functions as part of PMBM tracking in simulations and on real data from the Autosea and Autoferry projects.
* Write report and discuss the findings in the report. 

## Proposed Tasks for the master thesis

In the MSc thesis the candidate will aim to further expand the work from the specialization project into a system for situational awareness. The context of situational awareness applies both to a human operator overseeing the autonomous system, and collision avoidance methods that use the PMBM results as input. Several variations are possible, depending on the interests of the candidate. 

* Experiment with closed-loop usage of the tracking system as part of a COLAV system in simulations. This approach will involve collaboration with one or more of the PhD students who currently work on maritime COLAV at ITK.
* Investigate more carefully how accurate different output representations really are. Which measures can we use to quantify this?
* Expand the work from the specialization project to handle heterogeneous multi-sensor tracking, e.g., fusion of cameras and radar. 
* Test the visualization systems on trained operators and compare with professional ARPA displays. 

This project can be expanded into a PhD or integrated PhD for a candidate with sufficient skills, background knowledge and motivation. 

## References
Williams, J. (2015). "[Marginal multi-Bernoulli filters: RFS derivation of MHT, JIPDA, and association-based member.][Williams2015]" IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems, vol. 51, no. 3.

Crouse, D., Willett, P. and Bar-Shalom, Y. (2011). "[Developing a Real-Time Track Display That Operators Do Not Hate.][Crouse2011]" IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, vol. 59, no. 7.

## Contact

Supervisor: [Edmund Brekke].  

[Edmund Brekke]: www.ntnu.edu/employees/edmund.brekke
[Williams2015]: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7272821
[Crouse2011]: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/5740994