---
layout: post
title:Simulating a harbor environment with neural radiance fields
category: LTP
---


## Background

Neural radiance fields (NeRFs) have gained momentum as a tool to reconstruct complex three-dimensional scenes from two-dimensional images. Such reconstructions can be used as part of a digital twin.   



## Scope

The goal of this project is to build content for the digital twin Autoferry Gemini, which is used for simulations of the autonomous ferries milliAmpere 1 and milliAmpere 2. This includes both the environment with harbor facilities, water and buildings, and other vessels and vehicles in the vicinity. 


## Proposed tasks for the specialization project

* Make yourself familiar with literature and software for NeRFs. 
* Consolidate suitable training data for experimenting with NeRFs in the context of Autoferry Gemini. 
* Train NeRF models on collected data, and generate high-fidelity simulations. 
* Analyze the output in quantitative and qualitative terms. 

## Proposed tasks for the master thesis

The master thesis will build on the specialization project, and pursue a topic such as one of the following in greater depth:

* To which extent can NeRFs be used to simulate realistic sea conditions?
* To which extent can NeRFs be used to generate dynamic objects such as ships, cars, pedestrians, birds, etc?
* Can we also use NeRFs to estimate the motion of dynamic objects using online data from cameras or lidar?

## Prerequisites
This is a list of *recommended* prerequisites for this master project.

- Strong programming skills in either Matlab, Python or C++. 
- You should have had courses in machine learning and/or computer vision. 

## Contact 
For more information, contact main supervisor [Edmund F. Brekke](http://www.ntnu.no/ansatte/edmundfo).

## Relevant literature

* Yang et al (2023): “[UniSim: A Neural Closed-Loop Sensor Simulator](https://openaccess.thecvf.com/content/CVPR2023/papers/Yang_UniSim_A_Neural_Closed-Loop_Sensor_Simulator_CVPR_2023_paper.pdf)”, CVPR 2023.
* Huang et al. (2023): “[Neural LiDAR Fields for Novel View Synthesis](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10378302)”, ICCV 2023.

